---
title: German armored vehicles and Apple Mac OS X
author: oo
---

# German armored vehicles and Apple Mac OS X

I started using OSX this summer, and there has been some strange
familiarity to the naming policies of that operating system. It
suddenly struck me while watching Discovery Channel the other day:
Both OSX and the german military's armored vehicles are named after
big cats. 

Just watch: 

[Mac OS X 10.0
Cheetah](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mac_OS_X_v10.0) shares it's name
with the German [tank
destroyer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tank_destroyer) (armoured
self-propelled anti-tank cannon) named [Gepard](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flugabwehrkanonenpanzer_Gepard),
which is German for "cheetah". The OS is like the tank quite slow and
has very few applications. The main application of the tank is to kill
other tanks, while the OS Cheetah was designed to kill off OS9. Quite
appropriate. 

The next incarnation of OSX was [10.1
Puma](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mac_OS_X_v10.1), with it's German
[armoured fighting
vehicle](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Armoured_fighting_vehicle)
sibling - the, well,
[Puma](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Puma_%28AFV%29). Which is not a
real tank since it does not have belts, but then again OSX 10.1 was
not an real OS either, it was just an upgrade to Cheetah. 

Enter [Mac OS X 10.2
Jaguar](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mac_OS_X_v10.2). Like the German
multiple missile-armed tank destroyers [Jaguar
1](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaguar_1) and [Jaguar
2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jaguar_2) OSX Jaguar features the
possibility to accomplish many goals in one go, OSX Jaguar being a
very feature-packed release. 

As it's [German
namesake](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panther_tank) the [OSX 10.3
Panther](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mac_OS_X_v10.3) was quite an
upgrade. Both featured huge improvements in performance, firepower and
had an updated, modernized look and feel. However, while OSX Panther
came with FileVault protecting the user, the tank had a flawed design
where a shot-trap made it easy to blow up the driver compartment.. Not
unlike the OS, the tank was bugfixed and the G version resolved the
previous problems. 

And now on to the big guns. 

The [Tiger
I](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tiger_I) and the [Tiger
II](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tiger_II)does, exactly like [OSX 10.4
Tiger](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mac_OS_X_v10.4), pretty much
sweeps its competitive peers off the battlefield. Being the strongest
and slickest of the bunch helps a lot against attackers, be it
[Shermans](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M4_Sherman), [M-26
Pershings](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M26_Pershing),
[IS-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IS-2)s,
[Linux](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux) or [Windows
XP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_XP). The Tiger revisions are
also quite versatile, the tank served as both main battle tank, tank
destroyer and self-propelled machine gun - while the OS runs both on
PPC and Intel-powered machines. 

All great designs eventually turn old
enough to be reused and made subject to added features. So is the case
with both [OSX 10.5
Leopard](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mac_OS_X_v10.5) and the
modern-day German tank
[Leopard](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leopard_tank). The main
features remain the same, but there is more weight, more advanced
operation modes and more stability to be it gun turrets or the need
for incremental backups. 

But why does Mac OS X and german tank models
share the same naming convention and other similarities? Could it be
something having to do with the shared, well deserved, feeling of
beeing the best in engineering on the respective fields? Maybe the
tendency of both parties to respond well to strong leadership? The
desire for total control over the different territories and the need
to enforce this with great tanks, well organized armies, DRM and
operating systems locked to run on specific hardware?

I am not really sure, and there may be no connection at all. But like
the naming of the Grundig stereo amplifiers [V1, V2 and
V3](http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&lr=&safe=off&client=safari&rls=en&q=grundig+finearts+v3+v1+v2&btnG=Search)
compares easilly to the WWII rockets
[V1](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/V1_rocket) and
[V2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/V2_rocket), the OSX and tank names
may of course just be twisted coincidences :)
